.\" Copyright Petr Hracek, 2016
.\"
.\" This page is distributed under GPL.
.\"
.TH preupg 1 2016-09-01 "" "Linux User's Manual"
.SH NAME
preupg \- Preupgrade assistant performs assessment of the system from
the "upgradeability" point of view

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpreupg used in case of one installed contents on source system

\fBpreupg [-l, --list-contents]

\fBpreupg [-d, --debug] [--skip-common] [-s, --scan PATH] [-m, --mode MODE] [--force] [--text] [--kickstart] [--dst-arch]

\fBpreupg [-v, --verbose] [--riskcheck]

\fBpreupg [-c, --contents PATH]

\fBpreupg [--cleanup]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpreupg\fP is the main binary of Preupgrade Assistant.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c, --contents PATH
Generates a content for preupgrade assistant.
.TP
.B \-d, --debug
Makes preupgrade assistant log lots of debugging information.
.TP
.B \--cleanup
Clean all files created by preupg about previous state of the machine.
.TP
.B \-\-force
Suppress user interaction.
.TP
.B \-\-kickstart
Generate kickstart.
.TP
.B \-l, --list
Shows list of installed contents
.TP
.B \-m, --mode MODE
Select one (or both) from the possible modes: \fBmigrate\fR or \fBupgrade\fR. Both modes are used by default. \fBupgrade\fR is used for in-place upgrades on the same machine by \fIfedup\fR or \fIredhat-upgrade-tool\fR. \fBmigrate\fR is used for migration with kickstart with new clean installation, with settings of the new system as close as possible to settings of original system.
.TP
.B \-s, --scan PATH
Executes selected assessment taken from list option.
.TP
.B --skip-common
Skips generating common log files used during assessment.
.TP
.B --riskcheck
Returns value which depends on INPLACE RISK results.
If verbose mode is mentioned then shows all inplace risks generated during assessment.
Return values are 0 for SLIGHT, MEDIUM risk or 1 for HIGH risk or 2 for EXTREME risk.
.TP
.B \-\-text
Convert HTML results to text form by elinks, lynx or w3m.
.TP
.B \-v, --verbose
Shows more information during assessment. Verbose can be repeated more times.
.TP
.B \-\-dst-arch
Specify destination architecture for migrations. Allowed options are: i386-x86_64 or ppc-ppc64.

.SH RETURN STATES
\fBpreupg\fP command returns several return values.

Possible return values are:

\fB0\fP - preupg works properly and was successful even modules went properly. Modules exits with results PASS.

\fB10\fP - preupg works properly but modules finishes with 10. Modules exits with results NOT_APPLICABLE, NOT_CHECKED, NOT_SELECTED.

\fB11\fP - preupg works properly but modules finishes with 11. Modules exits with results INFORMATIONAL.

\fB12\fP - preupg works properly but modules finishes with 12. Modules exits with results FIXED, NEEDS_INSPECTION or NEEDS_ACTION.

\fB13\fP - preupg works properly but modules finishes with 13. Modules exits with results FAILED.

\fB14\fP - preupg works properly but modules finishes with 14. Modules exits with results UNKNOWN.

\fB15\fP - preupg works properly but modules finishes with 15. Modules exits with results ERROR.

\fB20\fP - preupg does not find a proper upgrade scenario.

\fB21\fP - preupg is executed with parameters \fBmode\fP and \fBselect\-rules\fP. This is not allowed.

\fB22\fP - preupg is executed with parameters \fBriskcheck\fP, \fBcleanup\fP and \fBkickstart\fP. This options are not allowed together.

\fB23\fP - preupg has to be executed as \fBroot\fP.

\fB24\fP - preupg has to be executed before kickstart generation or risk check.

\fB25\fP - openscap and openscap-engine-sce are not installed on the system.

\fB26\fP - you specified a text convertor which does not exist. Allowe convertors are \fBw3m\fP, \fBlynx\fP and \fBelinks\fP.

\fB27\fP - File \fB/usr/share/preupgrade/common/scripts.txt\fP is missing. Preupgrade-assistant is not installed properly. Reinstall it.

\fB28\fP - We have detected some trouble with sending report to WEB-UI. Check if it is installed.


.SH NOTES
All common log files are stored in \fB/var/cache/preupgrade/common\fP directory.
Assessment results are stored in \fB/root/preupgrade\fP directory. Tarballs with all assessments are stored in directory \fB/root/preupgrade-results\fP.

.SH AUTHORS
Petr Hracek, <phracek@redhat.com> (man page)
